THE BLACK CODE
OR
EDICT OF THE KING,
SERVING AS REGULATION
For
The Government & Administration of Justice, Police,
Discipline & Trade of Black Slaves, in
the Province & Colony of Louisiana.

Given at Versailles in the month of March 1724.

LOUIS BY THE GRACE OF GOD, KING OF FRANCE AND NAVARRE: To all present & to come, GREETINGS. The Directors of the Company of the Indies having represented to Us that the Province & Colony of Louisiana is considerably established by a great number of our Subjects, who use Black Slaves for the cultivation of the lands; We have deemed it to be of our authority & Justice, for the preservation of this Colony, to establish there a law & certain rules, to maintain the discipline of the Catholic,

Apostolic & Roman Church, & to order that which concerns the state & quality of the Slaves in the said Islands. And desiring to provide for this, & to make known to our Subjects who are inhabitants there & who will establish themselves there in the future, that although they inhabit climates infinitely distant, We are always present by the extent of our power, & by our application to assist them; FOR THESE REASONS, & others moving Us thereto, with the advice of our Council, & of our certain knowledge, full power & Royal authority, We have said, decreed & ordained, We say, decree & ordain, We wish & it pleases Us as follows.

FIRST ARTICLE.
I. The Edict of the late King Louis XIII. of glorious memory, of April 23, 1615, shall be executed in our Province & Colony of Louisiana; in doing this, we enjoin the Directors General of the said Company, & all our Officers, to chase from the said Country all the Jews who may have established their residence there, to whom, as to the declared enemies of the Christian name, We command to leave within three months, counting from the day of the publication of the Present, on pain of confiscation of body & goods.

II. All the Slaves who shall be in our said Province, shall be instructed in the Catholic, Apostolic & Roman Religion, & baptized: we order the Inhabitants who shall buy newly arrived Blacks, to have them instructed & baptized within a suitable time, on pain of an arbitrary fine; We Enjoin the Directors General of the said Company, & all our Officers, to attend to this exactly.

III. We FORBID all exercises of any other Religion than the Catholic, Apostolic & Roman one; We wish that the offenders be punished as rebels & disobedient to our Commands: We Forbid all assemblies for this purpose, which We declare conventicles, illicit & seditious, subject to the same penalty which shall take place even against the Masters

who shall permit or suffer them with regard to their Slaves.

IV. No Commanders shall be appointed to the direction of the Blacks, who do not profess the Catholic, Apostolic & Roman Religion, on pain of confiscation of the said Blacks against the Masters who shall have appointed them, & of arbitrary punishment against the Commanders who shall have accepted the said direction.

V. We Enjoin all our Subjects, of whatever quality & condition they may be, to observe regularly the days of Sundays & Holidays; We forbid them to work, or to make their Slaves work on the said days, from the hour of midnight until the other midnight, in the cultivation of the ground & all other works, on pain of fine & arbitrary punishment against the Masters, & of confiscation of the Slaves who shall be surprised by our Officers in work: nevertheless they may send their Slaves to the Markets.

VI. We Forbid our white Subjects of both sexes, to contract marriage with the Blacks, on pain of punishment & arbitrary fine; & to all Priests, Priests or secular or regular Missionaries, & even to the Chaplains of Ships, to marry them. We also Forbid our said white Subjects, even to Blacks freed or born free, to live in concubinage with Slaves; We wish that those who shall have had one or more children from such a conjunction, together with the Masters who shall have suffered it, each be condemned to a fine of three hundred livres: And if they are Masters of the Slave by whom they shall have had the said children, we wish that in addition to the fine they be deprived of both the Slave & the children, & that they be adjudged to the nearest Hospital, without ever being able to be freed. However, we do not intend the present Article to apply, when the black man, freed or free, who was not married during his concubinage with his Slave, shall marry in the forms prescribed by the Church the said Slave, who shall be freed by this means, & the children rendered free & legitimate.

VII. The solemnities prescribed by the [Ordinance of Blois](http://www.law.harvard.edu/faculty/cdonahue/courses/CLH/lectures/outl19.pdf), & by the Declaration of 1639, for marriages, shall be observed, both with regard to Free Persons & Slaves; without nevertheless the consent of the father & mother of the Slave being necessary, but that of the Master only.

VIII. We forbid most expressly Priests from proceeding to the marriages of Slaves, if they do not show the consent of their Masters: We also forbid Masters from using any constraints on their Slaves to marry them against their will.

IX. The children who shall be born from marriages between Slaves, shall be Slaves & shall belong to the Masters of the women Slaves, & not to those of their husbands, if the husbands & wives have different Masters.

X. We wish, if the husband Slave has married a free woman, that the children, both male & female, follow the condition of their mother, & be free like her, notwithstanding the servitude of their father; & that if the father is free & the mother a Slave, the children shall be Slaves likewise.

XI. Masters shall be held to have their baptized Slaves buried in sacred ground, in the Cemeteries destined for this purpose; & with regard to those who shall die without having received baptism, they shall be buried at night in some neighboring field where they shall have died.

XII. We Forbid Slaves to carry any offensive weapons or large sticks, on pain of the whip, & of confiscation of the weapons for the benefit of he who shall find them seized with them; with the exception only of those who shall be sent Hunting by their Masters, & who shall be bearers of their Notes or known marks.

XIII. We likewise Forbid Slaves belonging to different Masters, to gather in a troop by day or by night, under pretext of a wedding or otherwise, either at the home of one of their Masters or elsewhere, & still less on the highways or secluded places, on pain of corporal punishment, which shall be no less than the whip & the fleur-de-lys; & in case of frequent recidivism & other aggravating circumstances, they may be punished with death; which We leave to the decision of the Judges: We Enjoin all our Subjects to pursue the offenders, & to arrest & lead them to prison, although they are not Officers, & although there may not yet be any decree against the said offenders.

XIV. Masters who shall be convicted of having permitted or tolerated such assemblies, composed of other Slaves than those who belong to them, shall be condemned in their own & private name, to repair all the damage that shall have been done to their neighbors, on the occasion of the said assemblies, & to thirty livres fine for the first time, & double in case of recidivism.

XV.
We FORBID Slaves to expose for sale at the Market, or to carry into private houses for sale, any kind of commodities, even fruits, vegetables, firewood, herbs or fodder for the food of Cattle, or any kind of grain or other Merchandise, clothes or rags, without express permission from their Masters by a note or by known marks; on pain of revendication of the things thus sold, without restitution of price by the Masters, & of six livres fine for their benefit against the buyers with regard to fruits, vegetables, firewood, herbs, fodder & grain: We wish that with regard to the Merchandise, clothes or rags, the offending buyers be condemned to fifteen hundred livres fine, to expenses, damages & interests, & that they be prosecuted extraordinarily as receivers of stolen goods.

XVI.
We WISH to this effect, that two persons be appointed

in each Market, by the Officers of the Superior Council or the lower Justices, to examine the Commodities & Merchandise which shall be brought there by the Slaves, together with the notes & marks of their Masters of which they shall be bearers.

XVII.
We PERMIT all our Subject inhabitants of the Country, to seize all the things with which they shall find the said Slaves laden, when they shall not have notes from their Masters, nor known marks, to be returned immediately to their Masters, if their dwelling is near the place where the Slaves shall have been surprised in offense; if not they shall be immediately sent to the nearest Store of the Company, to be there in deposit until the Masters have been notified of it.

XVIII.
We WISH that the Officers of our Superior Council of Louisiana, send their opinions on the quantity of food & the quality of clothing that it is proper for Masters to furnish to their Slaves; which food must be furnished to them each week, & the clothing each year, for Us to enact a statute thereupon: & in the meantime we permit the said Officers, to regulate by provision the said food & the said clothing; We forbid the Masters of the said Slaves, to give any kind of eau-de-vie in lieu of the said subsistence & clothing.

XIX.
We likewise forbid them to discharge themselves of the feeding & subsistence of their Slaves, by permitting them to work certain days of the week for their private account.

XX.
Slaves who shall not be fed, clothed & maintained by their Masters, may give notice of it to the Attorney General of the said Council, or to the Officers of the lower Justices, & put their briefs in their hands; on which, & even ex officio if the notices come to them from elsewhere, the Masters shall be prosecuted at the Request of the said Attorney General & without expense, which We wish to be observed for the crimes & the

XXI.
Slaves who are infirm due to old age, sickness or otherwise, whether the disease be incurable or not, shall be fed & maintained by their Masters; & in case they may have abandoned them, the said Slaves shall be adjudged to the nearest Hospital, to which the Masters shall be condemned to pay eight sols per day for the food & maintenance of each Slave; for the payment of which sum, the said Hospital shall have a lien on the estates of the Masters, into whatever hands they may pass.

XXII.
We DECLARE Slaves to be unable to have anything which is not their Masters', & everything that comes to them by their industry or by the liberality of other persons or otherwise, by whatever title it may be, to be acquired in full ownership by their Masters; without the children of Slaves, their fathers & mothers, their kinsmen & all others, free or slaves, being able to claim anything by successions, dispositions inter vivos, or mortis causa; which dispositions we declare null, together with all the Promises & Obligations which they may have made, as being made by persons incapable of disposing & contracting of their own accord.

XXIII.
We WISH nevertheless that Masters be bound by what their Slaves shall have done by their command, together with what they shall have managed & negotiated in their Shops, & for the particular kind of trade to which their Masters shall have appointed them; & in case their Masters have given no order, & have not appointed them, they shall be bound only up to the amount of what shall have turned to their profit; & if nothing has turned to the profit of the Masters, the peculium of the said Slaves, which the Masters shall have permitted them to have, shall be liable for it after their Masters shall have deducted by preference what may be due to them, unless the peculium consists in whole or in part of Merchandise which the Slaves should have

permission to trade apart, on which their Masters shall come only by contribution by the pound with the other Creditors.

XXIV.
Slaves shall not be provided with Offices or Commissions having some public function, nor be constituted Agents by others than by their Masters, to manage & administer any business, nor be arbitrators or experts: neither shall they be witnesses, both in civil & criminal matters, unless they are necessary witnesses, & only for lack of Whites: but in no case shall they serve as witnesses for or against their Masters.

XXV.
Slaves shall also not be parties nor appear in court in civil matters, either as plaintiffs or defendants, nor be civil parties in criminal matters; except for their Masters to act & defend in civil matters, & to prosecute in criminal matters the reparation of the outrages & excesses which shall have been committed against their Slaves.

XXVI.
Slaves may be prosecuted criminally, without its being necessary to render their Masters parties, if they are not accomplices; & the Slaves accused, shall be judged in the first instance by the ordinary Judges if there are any, & by appeal to the Council on the same instruction, & with the same formalities as free persons, with the exceptions hereafter.

XXVII.
A Slave who has struck his Master, his Mistress, the husband of the Mistress, or their children, with contusion or effusion of blood, or in the face, shall be punished with death.

XXVIII.
And as for the excesses & acts of violence, which shall be committed by Slaves against free persons, We wish them to be severely punished, even with death if it be a case of it.

XXIX.
Qualified thefts, even those of Horses, Mares,

Mules, Oxen or Cows, which shall have been made by Slaves or by freed persons, shall be punished with corporal punishment, even with death if the case requires it.

XXX.
Thefts of Sheep, Goats, Pigs, Poultry, Grain, Fodder, Peas, Beans, or other Vegetables & Commodities, made by Slaves, shall be punished according to the quality of the theft by the Judges, who may, if it be a case of it, condemn them to be beaten with rods by the Executioner of the High Court, & marked with a Fleur-de-Lys.

XXXI.
Masters shall be bound, in case of theft or other damage caused by their Slaves, in addition to the corporal punishment of the Slaves, to make reparation for the wrong in their name, if they do not prefer to abandon the Slave to him to whom the wrong shall have been done; which they shall be bound to opt within three days, counting from that of the condemnation, otherwise they shall be deprived of it.

XXXII.
A fugitive Slave who shall have been on the run for a month, counting from the day that his Master shall have denounced him to Justice, shall have his ears cut off, & shall be marked with a Fleur-de-Lys on one shoulder; & if he reoffends for another month, counting likewise from the day of the denunciation, he shall have his hamstring cut, & be marked with a Fleur-de-Lys on the other shoulder; & the third time, he shall be punished with death.

XXXIII.
We wish that Slaves who shall have incurred the penalties of the whip, fleur-de-lys, & ears cut off, be judged in the last resort by the ordinary Judges, & executed without its being necessary for such judgments to be confirmed by the Superior Council, notwithstanding the content of Article XXVI. of the Present, which shall only apply to judgments imposing condemnation to death or hamstringing.

XXXIV.
Freed persons or free Blacks who shall have given refuge in their houses to fugitive Slaves, shall be condemned by the body to a fine of thirty livres for each day of retention; & other free persons who shall have given like refuge, to ten livres fine also for each day of retention: & for want of the said freed or free Blacks, to be able to pay the fine, they shall be reduced to the condition of Slaves & sold, & if the price of the sale exceeds the fine, the surplus shall be delivered to the Hospital.

XXXV.
We Permit our Subjects of the said Country who shall have fugitive Slaves, in whatever place it may be, to have them sought by such persons & on such conditions as they shall deem proper, or to do it themselves as they see fit.

XXXVI.
A Slave condemned to death on the denunciation of his Master who shall not be an accomplice to the crime, shall be appraised before the execution by two of the principal Inhabitants who shall be named ex officio by the Judge, & the price of the appraisal shall be paid, to satisfy which, there shall be imposed by our Superior Council on each head of a Black, the sum borne by the appraisal, which shall be regulated on each of the said Blacks, & levied by those who shall be commissioned for this purpose.

XXXVII.
We Forbid all Officers of our said Council, & other Officers of Justice established in the said Country, from taking any fee in the criminal trials against Slaves, on pain of extortion.

XXXVIII.
We also Forbid all our Subjects of the said Countries, of whatever quality & condition they may be, from giving or causing to be given on their private authority the question or torture to their Slaves, under any pretext whatsoever, nor to mutilate any limb of them, on pain of confiscation of the Slaves, & of being proceeded against extraordinarily: We only permit them, when they believe that their Slaves have merited it, to have them chained & beaten with rods or cords.

XXXIX.
We Enjoin the Officers of Justice established in the said Country, to proceed criminally against the Masters & the Commanders who shall have killed their Slaves, or mutilated the members being under their power or under their direction, & to punish the murder according to the atrocity of the circumstances: & in case there is cause for absolution, We permit them to return, both the Masters & the Commanders, absolved, without their having need to obtain from Us Letters of grace.

XL.
We wish Slaves to be considered movables, & as such that they enter into the Community, that there be no pursuit by mortgage on them, that they be equally divided between the Co-heirs without Birthright & Right of primogeniture, & that they not be subject to Dower, to the Customary Right of Redemption by a Kinsman or a Lord of the Manor, to Feudal & Seigneurial Rights, to the formalities of Decrees, nor to the retrenchment of the Four-Fifths, in case of disposition by reason of death or Testamentary.

XLI.
We do not however intend to deprive our Subjects of the faculty of stipulating them as proper to their persons, & to those of their side & line, as is practiced for sums of money & other movable things.

XLII.
The formalities prescribed by our Ordinances, & by the Custom of Paris, for the Seizures of movable things, shall be observed in the Seizures of Slaves: We wish that the proceeds thereof, be distributed by order of the Seizures; & in case of insolvency, by the pound after the privileged debts shall have been paid; & generally that the condition of Slaves be regulated in all affairs as that of other movable things.

XLIII.
We wish nevertheless that the husband, his wife & their minor children, cannot be seized & sold separately, if they are all under the power of the same Master; We Declare null seizures & separate sales which may be made of them, which We wish also to apply to voluntary sales, on pain against those who shall make the said sales, of being deprived of the one or those whom they shall have kept, who are adjudged to the Purchasers, without their being bound to make any supplement of price.

XLIV.
We also wish that Slaves aged fourteen years & above up to sixty years, attached to lands or estates, & actually working thereon, cannot be seized for other debts than for what shall be due from the price of their purchase, unless the lands or estates were really seized: in which case We enjoin to include them in the Real Seizure, & We forbid on pain of nullity, to proceed by Real Seizure & Adjudication by decree on lands or estates, without including therein the Slaves of the aforesaid age, actually working thereon.

XLV.
The judicial Lessee of lands or estates really seized, jointly with the Slaves, shall be bound to pay the price of his Lease, without his being able to count among the fruits which he receives, the children who shall be born of Slaves during his said Lease.

XLVI.
We wish notwithstanding all agreements to the contrary, which We declare null, that the said children belong to the party Seized if the Creditors are satisfied from elsewhere, or to the Adjudicatee if a Decree intervenes; & to this effect mention shall be made in the last notice of the interposition of the said Decree, of the children born of the Slaves since the Real Seizure, as also of the Slaves deceased since the said Real Seizure in which they were included.

XLVII.
To avoid expenses & lengthy procedures, we wish that the distribution of the entire price of the joint Adjudication of lands & Slaves, & of that which shall come from the price of the judicial Leases, be made between the Creditors according to the order of their Privileges & Mortgages, without distinguishing what is for the price of the Slaves; & nevertheless Feudal & Seigneurial Rights shall only be paid in proportion to the lands.

XLVIII.
Kinsmen & Feudal Lords shall not be permitted to retract decreed, divided or voluntarily sold lands, if they do not also retract the Slaves sold jointly with the lands where they actually worked; nor the Adjudicatee or the Purchaser, to retain the Slaves without the lands.

XLIX.
We ENJOIN the noble & bourgeois Guardians, Usufructuaries, Lessees, & others enjoying lands to which Slaves who work thereon are attached, to govern the said Slaves as good fathers of families; by means of which they shall not be bound after their administration is finished to return the price of those who shall have died or been impaired by sickness, old age or otherwise, without their fault: And also they shall not be able to retain as fruits for their benefit, the children born of the said Slaves during their administration, which We wish to be preserved & returned to those who are the Masters & Owners of them.

L. Masters aged twenty-five years may manumit their Slaves by all Acts inter vivos or mortis causa: And however as there may be found Masters mercenary enough to set the liberty of their Slaves at a price, which leads the said Slaves to theft & brigandage, We forbid all persons of whatever quality & condition they may be, from manumitting their Slaves, without having obtained permission by Decree of our said Superior Council; which permission shall be granted without expense, when the motives which shall have been set forth by the Masters shall appear legitimate. We wish that Manumissions which shall be made in the future without these permissions, be null, & that the Manumitted cannot enjoy them, nor be recognized as such: We Order on the contrary that they be held, considered & reputed Slaves, that the Masters be deprived of them, & that they

be confiscated for the benefit of the Company of the Indies.

LI.
We wish nevertheless that Slaves who shall have been named by their Masters, Tutors of their children, be held & reputed as We hold & repute them for manumitted.

LII.
We DECLARE the manumissions made in the forms hereinbefore prescribed, to take the place of birth in our said Province of Louisiana, & the manumitted to have no need of our Letters of naturalization, to enjoy the advantages of our natural Subjects in our Kingdom, Lands & Countries of our obedience, even though they be born in foreign Countries: We declare however the said manumitted, together with the free Blacks, incapable of receiving from Whites any donation inter vivos mortis causa or otherwise: We wish that in case any be made to them, it remain null with respect to them, & be applied to the benefit of the nearest Hospital.

LIII.
We COMMAND the manumitted to bear a singular respect to their former Masters, to their Widows & to their Children; so that the injury which they shall have done to them, be punished more grievously than if it had been done to another person, the Directors however free & clear towards them of all other Charges, Services & Useful Rights which their former Masters might claim, both on their persons & on their Property & Successions, in quality of Patrons.

LIV.
We GRANT to the Manumitted the same Rights, Privileges & Immunities which free born persons enjoy; We wish that the merit of an acquired liberty produce in them, both for their persons & for their property, the same effects as the happiness of natural liberty causes to our other Subjects, all however with the exceptions borne by Article LII. of the Present.

LV.
We DECLARE the Confiscations & Fines which have no

particular destination by these Presents, to belong to the said Company of the Indies, to be paid to those who are appointed to the Receipt of its Rights & Revenues: We wish nevertheless that a third of the said Confiscations & Fines be set aside for the benefit of the nearest Hospital to the place where they shall have been adjudged.

SO WE GIVE IN COMMANDMENT to our beloved & loyal the People holding our Superior Council of Louisiana, that these Presents they have to cause to be read, published & registered, & the content in them, to keep & observe according to their form & tenor, notwithstanding all Edicts, Declarations, Decrees, Regulations & Usages to the contrary, which We have derogated & do derogate by these Presents; FOR SUCH IS OUR PLEASURE. And in order that it may be a firm & stable thing forever, We have caused our Seal to be affixed to it. GIVEN at Versailles in the month of March, the year of grace one thousand seven hundred twenty-four, & of our Reign the ninth. Signed LOUIS. And lower down by the King, PHELYPEAUX. Visa FLEURIAU, Viewed at the Council, DODUN. And sealed with the great Seal of green wax, in silk ribbons red & green.

For The King.

Seal of green wax, in silk ribbons red & green.

For the King. { Collated with the Original, by Us Esquire-Counselor-Secretary of the King, House-Crown of France & of his Finances.

AT PARIS, FROM THE ROYAL PRINTING HOUSE. 1727.